chore(blog): faq article about hackathon (#366)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/hackathon-faq.md

### Is it a team competition or only for individuals?

Both.

You can work solo or form a team if you want! Just keep in mind that if you win with a team, the prize is divided amongst the entire team.

### I want to participate, but I don't have a good idea

No worries, look at the ideas that [community members are sharing in our public community discussion thread](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/categories/asyncapi-hack-2021-ideas-brainstorming); you can pick one of them and/or get some inspiration. 

### Can there be multiple submissions with the same idea?

Yes.

We do not set any limits here. The same idea can be done by multiple teams. Just keep in mind that if there are two excellent submissions for the same idea, I doubt judges will vote for both to let other ideas shine, although this is not an official rule.

### What is the scope of the submission? What does finishing my solution on time really mean?

- Your solution must be fully open-sourced and stored in a repository under your GitHub profile. Please do not use Bitbucket or GitLab as it will increase complexity for our community members that will review submissions.

> - Your repository must have [an open source](https://choosealicense.com/) license. If that helps, at AsyncAPI Initiative we always use Apache 2.0 :wink:.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your repository must have [an open source](https://choosealicense.com/) license. If it helps, at AsyncAPI Initiative we always use Apache 2.0 :wink:.
```

- It cannot integrate with a commercial solution that has no free tier.
- You must submit it before the deadline. Evaluation of the solution will not take into account any commits pushed to the repository after the deadline.

### How do I submit my task?

Create a new discussion item [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/categories/asyncapi-hack-2021-submissions). Make sure there is:
- Overview of what the solution is about.
- Screenshots/Video/Diagrams/Code snippets (`anyOf` :wink:) that helps judges to quickly understand the solution and encourage them for further review.
- Link to the repository where the full solution can be found.

> If you win, you get to present your idea at our upcoming 2021 [AsyncAPI Conference in November](http://conference.asyncapi.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you win, you get to present your idea at our upcoming 2021 [AsyncAPI Conference in November](http://conference.asyncapi.com/).
```

- Join our [Slack](https://www.asyncapi.com/slack-invite). We are a very friendly and responsive community.
- Create an issue in [one of the repositories](https://github.com/asyncapi/) and explain what help you need.

### What prizes are there?

$5000 for the winner, $3000 for the runner-up, and $1000 for 3rd place.

There will also be additional swag-packs for other participants.

### How do I get the winning prize money or swag?

After the AsyncAPI Conference, you must submit an expense to Open Collective [here](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/events/asyncapi-hackathon-and-conference-2021-3156d7af) with an invoice that indicates the amount of money you have won.

For swags, we will ask you directly to share your postal address with us that we will share with the agency responsible for swag-pack production.

> ### Who owns the intellectual property (IP) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Who owns the intellectual property (IP)?
```

---
title: "AsyncAPI Hackathon FAQ"
date: 2021-10-19T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Conference
  - Hackathon
cover: /img/posts/hackathon-faq/cover.webp
authors:
  - name: Lukasz Gornicki
    photo: /img/avatars/lpgornicki.webp
    link: https://twitter.com/derberq
    byline: AsyncAPI Maintainer and Community Guardian
excerpt: Answers to all the questions you ever wanted to ask about the AsyncAPI Hackathon 2021
featured: true
---

> Last year it was the first time we hosted the AsyncAPI Conference. This year it is time to host our first AsyncAPI Hackathon. Many questions are coming from the community, and this article tries to address them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last year was the first time we hosted the AsyncAPI Conference. This year, we're going to host our first AsyncAPI Hackathon. This article tries to address the many questions coming from our community. 😀
```

### When is the Hackathon?

> 1st - 31st of October 2021.
> 
> You have an entire month to complete your idea. No usual over-weekend hard work but relaxed month instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1st - 31st of October, 2021.

We wanted you to have an entire month to complete your idea. This way, you don't have to stress and overwork yourself over the weekend. Instead, enjoy a relaxed month and remember it's about having fun! 🤩 
```

### What is the main theme for the Hackathon?

The goal of the Hackathon is to provide MVP solutions that can help AsyncAPI Community in ways like:

- Ease education and getting started with the project.
- Bring new AsyncAPI-related solutions that can solve the existing challenges the community is facing with event-driven architectures.

> - Extend existing tools, reuse them in some scenarios, add the extra implementation on top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extend existing tools, reuse them for some scenarios, and add the extra implementation on top.
```

### Do I need to register for the event?

> No.
> 
> Anybody can join the Hackathon. Whenever you want. No pressure in case you can't deliver what you planned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No, you do not need to register for the event. 🙂

Anybody can join the Hackathon, whenever they want! No pressure, in case you realize you can't deliver what you had originally planned.
```

> ### Is it team competition or for individuals?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Is it a team competition or only for individuals?
```

Both.

> You can form a team if you want. Just keep in mind that once you win, the prize also goes to the entire team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can work solo or form a team if you want! Just keep in mind that if you win with a team, the prize is divided amongst the entire team.
```

### I want to participate, but I don't have a good idea

> No worries, look at ideas that [others shared](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/categories/asyncapi-hack-2021-ideas-brainstorming), you can pick one of them or just get some inspiration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No worries, look at the ideas that [community members are sharing in our public community discussion thread](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/categories/asyncapi-hack-2021-ideas-brainstorming); you can pick one of them and/or get some inspiration. 
```

### Can there be multiple submissions with the same idea?

Yes.

> We do not set any limits here. The same idea can be done by multiple teams. Just keep in mind that if there are two excellent submissions for the same idea, I doubt judges will vote for both to let other ideas shine, although this is not an official rule.

Reviewer: `"I doubt judges will vote for both to let other ideas shine, although this is not an official rule."`

Sorry, what? this confused me 😕

Author: I'm just trying to express that if we will have 5 people independently working on https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/55 and event of 2-3 submissions will be super cool, I doubt that judges will choose all of them but most probably just one.

Reviewer: Ok so are you saying that if a single person/team submits 2-3 ideas, judges will prob choose only 1? Because the sentence reads as if you were saying that if many people/teams submitted the same ideas, prob only one team will win. 

So I want to fix this sentence, and make sure it's clearer 😀

Author: oh, is that what it says 😄 

I'm saying that if multiple people/teams submit the same solution, but of course implemented differently,  then most probably judges will only select one and rest of votes will put on completely different solutions 😄

Reviewer: okidoki, I guess it's ok then... sorry for all the back and forth questions, I was legit trying to make sure I read and understood it all correctly :D

> ### What is the scope of the submission? What does it mean I finished my solution on time?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What is the scope of the submission? What does finishing my solution on time really mean?
```

> - Your solution must be fully open-sourced and stored in a repository under your GitHub profile,

Reviewer 2: Is Gitlab or Bitbucket not allowed?

Author: if somebody is not using GitHub then I don't see really how we can long term collaborate together in the initiative. What does it give to the hackathon participant to store code on BitBucket or Gitlab? 

For me, it adds more complexity for our community members that will review submissions?

Reviewer 2: I think "Github is a must" deserves a bullet point here as it might become a faq as well.

Author: Makes sense, added, please have a look and suggest improvements if needed 🙇🏼

> - Your solution must be fully open-sourced and stored in a repository under your GitHub profile,

Reviewer 2: Per consistency with other points:
```suggestion
- Your solution must be fully open-sourced and stored in a repository under your GitHub profile
```

> - Your solution must be fully open-sourced and stored in a repository under your GitHub profile. Please do not use Bitbucket or GitLab as it will increase complexity for our community members that will review submissions,

Reviewer 2: I suggest you to **only** use one ending character style when creating bullets but not mixing them across the doc:

- End with period
- End without period
- Whatever

- It cannot integrate with a commercial solution that has no free tier,

> - You must submit it before the deadline. Evaluation of the solution will not take into account any commits pushed to the repository after the deadline,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You must submit it before the deadline. Evaluation of the solution will not take into account any commits pushed to the repository after the deadline
```

### How do I submit my task?

Create a new discussion item [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/categories/asyncapi-hack-2021-submissions). Make sure there is:
- Overview of what the solution is about.
- Screenshots/Video/Diagrams/Code snippets (`anyOf` :wink:) that helps judges to quickly understand the solution and encourage them for further review.
- Link to the repository where the full solution can be found.

> This is not it. If you win, you need to present your idea at [AsyncAPI Conference in November](http://conference.asyncapi.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you win, you get to present your idea at our upcoming 2021 [AsyncAPI Conference in November](http://conference.asyncapi.com/)
```

I think it accidentally sounds a little short/rude to start with "this is not it." That's why I removed it. Also overall was trying to make things sound friendlier.

### How will solutions be scored?

A selected group that will represent the community will review all solutions. They will be obligated to only provide YES comments for ideas they liked the most and explain why. Each judge has 3 votes. 

> Submissions and scores are public, and we need to reserve a right for judges to not make a public NO comment for the respect of all involved parties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submissions and scores are public, and we reserve the right for judges to not make public NO comments, for the respect of all involved parties.
```

> Solution with the highest score wins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solution with the highest score wins! 😀
```

### How do I get help? Who can help with further understanding of AsyncAPI and the entire tooling landscape?

> - Join one of `Contributor First` meetings. These will be streamed throughout the entire October. Add this calendar with [Google Calendar format](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=tbrbfq4de5bcngt8okvev4lstk%40group.calendar.google.com) or [iCal format](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/tbrbfq4de5bcngt8okvev4lstk%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics). `Contributor First` will take place every Wednesday, twice a day, 8AM UTC and 4PM UTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Join one of `Contributor First` meetings. These will be streamed throughout the entire month of October, 2021. Add this calendar with [Google Calendar format](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=tbrbfq4de5bcngt8okvev4lstk%40group.calendar.google.com) or [iCal format](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/tbrbfq4de5bcngt8okvev4lstk%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics).  The `Contributor First` meetings will take place every Wednesday, twice a day, at 8AM UTC and 4PM UTC.
```

- Join our [Slack](https://www.asyncapi.com/slack-invite). We are a very friendly and responsive community.
- Create an issue in [one of the repositories](https://github.com/asyncapi/) and explain what help you need.

### What prizes are there?

> $5000 for the winner, $3000 for runner-up, and $1000 for 3rd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$5000 for the winner, $3000 for the runner-up, and $1000 for 3rd place.
```

There will also be additional swag-packs for other participants.

> ### How do I get the money or swag?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do I get the winning prize money or swag?
```
